The Swinging 70's

June 7 2020 I was driving up the Princes Highway towards Newtown. Up ahead
was a police breathalyser unit. My destination was Applebee Street
St Peters, which meant I had to turn left before the police unit,
into Short street to get to where I was going. I turned into Short
street and within three seconds a motor bike Policeman followed me
flashing his lights. I pulled up and stopped at the kerb. I rolled down
my window and waited. He greeted me and asked if I had had anything to
drink. "Besides water and tea, nothing," I replied. He said they were conducting
breath testing and wondered if I could blow into this unit and count
to five. "That's not a problem", I said, "and I knew you'd follow me as it
looks like I'm avoiding the breath test by turning into Short
Street." He smiled. Then asked to see my drivers licence. I produced it.
He examined it and gave it back. I said I turned because I'm writing a
book about this area and the panel beating business I had in Applebee
street in the early 70s. He asked me to count to five into his meter
and said everything's fine. I continues That house and this house were
here in 73 , Where this new unit is was a chrome plating business
then. He asked how long did I do panel beating , I replied about 20
years . Then I changed tp welding and ended up as a Tafe teacher at St
George Tafe Kogarah. Wow you were busy. Then he said I was a motor
mechanic before I joined the police force. Ok I laughed , You know
what the car yards used to do back then I continued , they used to
wind back the odometers and had special guys who'd circulate Sydney
car yards to provide that service on call. Then that car will be
advertised as having one owner. An old lady who only used it for
shopping; only ever driven on Sundays. That's why the car has low
milage. He laughed yes they used a hand drill to
connect to the speedo cable and wind it back. Yep, i said, He
continued They.re doing better now. Theyre stealing Ferraries changing
the details , registering it in their name and then crashing it
deliberately then claiming the insurance. I was very surprised at the
revelation. He said Have a good day and good luck with your book.

I turned into Applebee street and parked. Got out and walked a short
distance to the old workshop. My mind wandered to a time when people
spoke differently , the area had hardly changed , except the buildings
were unused now. The little houses were quiet the street empty,
silent and could tell stories if it could talk. 

It was March 1972 I started my dream life in the form of a Panel
Beating business 74 Applebee street, St Peters , an industrial ,
residential suburb combination in Sydney. I had been visualising
being my own boss for many years. My workshop was fully equipped to
repair and repaint motor vehicles. I had Business cards made and
went along the Princes Highway handing out my cards to car yards big
and small. My wife , son and I had been in Australia for over a year
by then and I was confident enough to understand the Australian
accent and most of the colloquiailism , a far cry since my encounter
in Perth in 1969 with Ozzie strine.
 
We had just arrived in Perth and after a day I went looking for the
Boilermakers Union office in High street, well after three exhausting
hours of walking up and down the city of Perth and too embarrassed to
ask anyone , I finally asked a man waiting to cross the road , for
directions to High street , he pointed to the street sign , "this is
it mate" it was Hay street.
 
I noticed every car yard office or mechanical repair workshop i
entered had Pin Up girls plastered on the walls and a transistor radio
blasting the latest rock and blues . It would've been illegal to
display those pictures in South Africa i thought, The guys seemed
friendly, cheerful and happy to meet me , but because i stuck out like
a sore thumb. Especially my accent, they would ask how long I've been
here and where I came from , when I told them , The phrase "you're a
better man than me Pete to come here all that way" became familiar to
me. Nobody ever said that to me in South Africa, instead I was
reminded daily how useless we were and labled as won't work, lazy
drunks by the apartheid government.

Work steadily increased with car yards sending in small repairs and
locals with rusted panels or noisy muffler repairs.

One afternoon I was working on a small van when the lady living
opposite my workshop walked in and screamed "go back where you come
from , you're not welcome here". Her husband was leaning on their front
gate encouraging her. "I can't hear my TV" she shouted. The lady
living next to my workshop stormed in "Leave him alone you sticky
beak, mind your own damn business" they grabbed each other by the hair
with the intruder retreating to her front gate and my supporter in
pursuit , "I'm not finished with you , you grub" the trouble maker was
in her own front yard by then but my supporter was fuming and managed
to get over the low garden wall. By then the husbands were prying
their wives apart. Other neighbours watched. most shouting support for
me ,"he's no trouble , minds his own business , give him a fair go
mate" they shouted, my lady supporter and her husband came into the
workshop to assure their support including the neighbours , "She'll be
right mate" a collection of pensioners and others in their 40s and 50s
, most had been disturbed from watching their favourite TV shows, some
with beer cans in cigarette stubs in their lips. "No worries Pete I
gotta a couple o home brew for ye mate" Another person invited me to
come over and see his ferrets when i have time. My supporters husband,
I found out was called Max and she was Maizie, Max invited me to see
his short wave radio equipment and listen to his James Last selection
. He loved working on his old Holden and fishing on Bare Island for
black fish he often gave me some. He never bought bait he used sea
weed which he called burley, Sometimes he'd take a stainless steel
pump and suck up nippers at low tide on La Perouse beach , to use as
bait for Flat heads and Bream. He liked the outdoors and also had
Ferrets, which he used to hunt rabbits in Oberon, He also hunted
foxes out there and told me the farmers always gave him permission to
kill a few, He showed me his equipment for hunting foxes . Two .22mm
rifles a fox whistle , hunting knife and the ferrets. He sold the fox
skins locally and Maizie wore the stole he made for her, whenever she
visited her friends in Marrickville. He also had a foxes tail tied to
his radio antenna but then so did many other people. Max was a
machine operator at Austral Bronze in Alexandria . They manufactured
brassware such as plumbing and sheet copper. He managed to get three
sheets of copper big enough to make these copper plaques which was my
hobby at the time. Hobby supply shops only had this size of A4. On his
nights off , he listened to the police and ambulance calls and
overseas radio stations on his short wave radio , which I thought was
a great pastime . It was the in thing i discovered. Maizie visited me
one day and said. Max's been off work for a week with a rash on his
legs, he was supposed to return to work tomorrow and I caught him in
the bathroom using coarse sand paper he got from you to rub on his leg
to aggravate the "rash" Later that day Max walked in and told me what
happened he laughed about it and finished by muttering fuck the boss I
hate that job. Ill be happy to give it away and live in Oberon he used
to say.

Tow truck drivers would stop to introduce themselves and the deal was
$50 for every "Drop" meaning $50 for every damaged car they brought to
me but that didn't mean you got the job to repair it , That decision
was left to the insurance company and you had to be willing and
prepared any time of day or night to open up and take the car or
they'll take it elsewhere. Harry lived in Coogee and owned a tow truck
as a precaution he had a shot gun behind his seat. Fights broke out
regularly between the "Towies" especially for alleged encroachment.

I took pride in my work especially rust repairs where i would cut out
the rust and weld in new metal and repaint the area . I soon realised
the car yards just wanted the rust filled with plastic filler material
smoothed over and painted and you'll never know the difference, Ken a
car yard owner would ring  "G'day young Pete gotta job f'ya. An old
Vdub bog up the bulkhead f'us . Use bread or cement'll do anda coata
paint" I refused those jobs as it would be irresponsible on my
part. That didn't matter to the dealers . some stuffed banana skins
into worn gear boxes to temporarily deaden the noise and so get a
sale. At the time there were some men that specialised in winding back
odometers . The car yards called them magicians . A call would go
something like. Pete a magician will call around at your place soon
to do the right thing on the Falcon . "What ?" I'd say . You don't
wanna know mate . ok whatever. Of course I soon realised they were
winding back the milage. A man would arrive by motorbike . "G'day
Pete I'm the magician . come to look at the Falcon" he'd take his
little tool box and do whatever and leave with a "she's right
mate". Soon i realised they used a hand drill . disconnected the cable
to the speedometer and rewound it thereby reducing the milage
. Saturday morning it'll be advertised as been owned by an old lady
who only used it to go shopping "Low milage"

Some people were used car dealers who worked from home. Buying and
selling . one Bob Mooney walked in one day . An American accent was
evident but he said he was Canadian. He was medium height . dark round
staring eyes black rimmed spectacles . Dark hair greying at the
temples square face. Ashen complexion . Light grey suit black
tie. Shiny black shoes. He stood to attention as though on
parade. After introducing himself he whipped out five
passports. British . Canadian . American . New Zealand and Australian.
I was a flim flam man back in the states and had to get out, The last
job i did was an old lady in a tobacconists . I'd order a box of
cigars and pay for it then i'd clim id given the sales person a $100
bill when in fact it was a ten or twenty and I'd insist until they
gave me the change. Maybe two or three jobs a day. But this day the
old bag screamed and rushed out into the street shouting help police
and I was lucky to get away. So i decided to leave the USA and come
over to Australia.

I thought of my first encounter with an American in Australia was in
1969 in Perth WA. That freaked me out. I was working as a welder for
Comeng in Bassendean . One morning a fellow welder walked up to me
looking very nervous shaky and perspiring walked up to me and said
he'd like to speak to me. My first reaction was "Are you sick?" No. he
replied I'm from Alabama , the names Jim Wilson and i’ve never spoken
to a black man before. I said OK I don't bite I don’t have two heads
. whats your problem. Just want you to know theres a campaign here to
get you sacked and I’m not signing it. Ok thanks for that i said he
left it.

Ok Bob I said how can I help you. He said I’m a private dealer and
want you to do my detailing or body repairs for me. I can bring one
car per week . Sure Bob. He continued I get from from the auction. So
every week he would bring in a car and id do the repairs before sale
.He became a frequent visitor and built and friendly relationship
. Howver in the back of my mind I was cautious as he had disclosed his
flim flam background to me. He hadn’t appeared for a few weeks. Then
one day turned up dressed as a priest. Greeting me warmly he said What
do you think? I said did you buy that outfit in George street ? near
Central Railway, Yes they got nun outfits there too. He said Ive given
up cars and now an ordained minister of the Christodelphian Church of
America, He open his brief case and withdrew a beautiful red and gold
certificate which he handed to me to read smiling broadly and posing
in his usual to attention posture. He said I can get you one too just
$25. Smash repairs and the motor trade is too hard. He said I’m making
$100 a day in Bondi Coogee area Eastern suburbs is where the money
is. I roll up the door knock and spin my thing . Good morning madame
I’m the new minister of the American Christodelphian church and we are
looking to open a new branch in this area so we need some support and
assisiatnce from the community to get going, All those who donate will
have their names on the founders list at the front door for all to
see. With that he took out a thick wad of notes and peeled off a few
to hand to me as a gift . but I refused . He said Nice guys finish
last Pete. Laer i discovered he was known as Preacher Bob to the NSW
police.

He did that for months and would come around once or twice a week. One
day he arrived with three girls in a car. I'm into personal service
now Pete I made enough from the priest gig. What personal service I
enquired. He replied with a question , Want a girl ? He said there's
three girls in the car which one do you want just $10 out the back
. That's what I'm doing now. The girl are happy I'm happy. The car
yard guys up and down Princes Highway love it. I'm getting two flats
soon and I'll live in one and the girls in the other, that way I'm off
the road . By the way I'm getting married soon and I want you to be my
best man, He brought his future bride for me to meet . she was much
younger than him and looked affected by alcohol or drugs. I wasn't his
best man he wandered off and found someone else as I was too busy at
work anyway. He came in one day and said his wife does the whipping
and leather wear fetish and the girls next door to him now do the main
gigs. One afternoon he asked if I could accompany him to visit his
wife who had given birth at the womens hospital in Paddington. When we
arrived he walked behind me then stopped and asked if I could go in on
his behalf and tell his wife he will visit tomorrow. I was curious and
asked why? He told me the day before he had masqueraded as a doctor in
the wards and went around examining the women if they see him visiting
his wife he'll be uncovered. I went in and told her he will come the
following day to see her and she burst into tears, All the women in
the ward swore at me calling me names thinking Im her husband and had
upset her.

He waited outside . How is she ? Thanks Pete. Bugger off Bob. I owe
you Pete, What can I do to repay you? Mmmm ok Yes you could Bob , A
furnature removalist company owes me $350 can you go around in the
morning to collect it for me as Ive sent them my invoices with no
result. We made an agreement to repair and repaint a truck every
weekend , so that their trucks are always working I've done four jobs
and so far and it's gone unpaid.

Ok he said I'll do it first thing in the morning he said. I replied
but you're an afternoon/night person will you be able to get up so
early.

He stared at me briefly as if looking for a good answer then
spoke. Sometimes you gotta fuck a pig Pete. He said. I owe you
remember ? The following morning Max dropped in for a visit. I didn't
have much work things were quiet in the smash repair business. He said
it's time to grin and bare it Pete. What do you mean? I asked He said
business is like that , as if he read my mind. He continued My dad had
a foundry and sometimes things were slack but he hung in there until
things picked up and away we'd go again. Smash repairs rely on the
weather he said from the side of his mouth , the rollo half smoked
stuck there like a tooth pick. He lived two doors away and always wore
brown felt slippers at home , shorts and a check shirt . walked slowly
as though measuring the steps he takes. What I'm saying is Panel
beating is a mug's game When the weather is good business is bad ,
when the weather is bad business is good. He was right I thought. We
had had great weather for months but the farmers were unhappy since it
was very dry interstate and in the outback.

He continued I notice you've got a sleezy yank hangin about here ,
whats he up to ? I replied he's a private car dealer. Gets them from
the auctions and i detail and do minor repairs so he can sell
them. Max said , doesn't it bother you he looks pretty dodgy , I
replied , not much scares me in Australia Max I grew up in
Johannesburg with my grand parents . Most nights I got home around
nine or nine thirty and my grand dad would scold me. Where the hell do
you come from covered in dust and dry grass. Tomorrows school . Get
into the bathroom and clean up straight to bed.

I'd been out in the streets watching muggings and that night a
stabbing. A group of men were rolling dice there mustve been about
twelve. A player rolled and mustve won because he stooped to pick uo
the winning when one of the others pulled out a dagger and stuck it in
his neck. The man stood up and ran off with the knife stuck in his
neck in the direction of the hospital. I heard the others laugh , Fuck
him one of them said he was winning every throw, his dice mustve been
loaded.

While i took this in word came around that there was going to be a
fair fight between the leader of our guys in the area , with a gang
leader from the next suburb. It was about a girl and it will be under
the street lights on the next corner. So I arrived in time to see the
opponent squaring uo and shouts of fare fight, in other words no
weapons. Blows were landing with a thud and a crunch and i was glad it
wasn't me on the receiving end but these two were older than me
anyhow. As we urged them on I felt a blow to the back of my head and
remember seeing the tarmac come up to meet my face, police sirens were
screeching and shouts of coppers. I strung up and ran but in the dark
I ran into a low front yard wire fence , which repelled me propelling
me into the fray . There mustve been about twenty of us scrambling to
avoid arrest and diving in all directions. I felt a hand pull me and
someone shouting come with me. It was my friend Eric we ran into the
dark and out of the confusion. Someone was ahead of us so we sprinted
as quci as we could to catch up with him. In the back of my mind I was
hoping to get to my grand fathers brothers place a hide in his front
yard until the cops were gone . Suddenly the guy ahead of us while in
full sprinting mode scoop up a brick and twisted and flung it at us. I
heard it fly past my face vooorrr . I then realised he was from the
opposing gang thinking we were after thumping him. He disappeared into
the night and I found my grand uncles place and together we hid there
until the cops went. I had a massive lump on my head.

We were more afraid of the police than the gangsters. 

Max asked me for some business cards and offerd to hand them out in St
Peters and Newtown. I got a bottle of home brew for you later Pete,
were his parting words.

Bob was on time dressed in his light grey suit and a black knitted
silk tie shiny black shoes clean shaven and used his German accent for
a laugh. Do I present well herr Pete, excellent mein herr I
replied. He said give me your invoice as I handed it to him he
produced a brief case and placed it in there. He stood erect and said
today I;m at your service as payback for yesterday. He said Youre too
nice Peter and nice guys finish last. The office was about minutes 10
away and he took my car . He returned about an hour later. Alighting
from the car he waved a wad of money in the air. Got it !

OK great work mein herr. Wow thanks Bob. I said so no drama ? He said
 I asked to speak to the manager regards this bill after i introduced
 myself as a debt collector , the receptionist said he cant be
 disturbed as he was in an important meeting. Pointing to a door, I
 said in there ? She nodded So I walked towards the door and shived
 her out of the way and entered . I asked for the manager he waved and
 said he'll see me later after the meeting , I said you'll see me now,
 my client Associated Smash repairs hasn't been paid for any of the
 work he's done for you, so I'm a debt collector and I'm not leaving
 his room until the account is settled. He hurriedly called the girl
 in and told her to get it from petty cash he beamed.
 
 That contract was keeping my head above water because the car dealers
 jobs weren't regular either And they did the small repairs and
 detailing themselves. Max's business cards handouts attracted much
 needed work and local panel beaters sent some of their jobs to me.
 
Occasionally I'd get a big job other than little rust repairs or
detailing and minor repairs for car dealers. One such job was a EH
Holden. The insurance company had written it off and the owner asked
if it was repairable. I said it was but that the radiator has to be
replaced. When the repairs were almost complete I reminded him. He
also wanted the car repainted. Everything done he came to pick it up
and argued about the radiator. He refused to pay until I replaced the
radiator. As it was around 5pm. I said the car stays until you pay me
for the work Ive done . He was a big middle eastern man , posturising
above me. So I shut the front roller door , picked up a four pound
hammer, while he watched me quizzically. I said heres the solution ,
you either pay me or i return the car as it was when you brought it to
me for repairs, I had raised the hammer above my head ready to smash
his bonnet and windscreen and bash the doors in. He screamed nooo I
pay I pay. I said you bastard put the money on my deck take your car
and fuck off. He hurried into my office counting out the money and
came out, It's all there he said breathlessly. I opened the roller
door so gave him the keys . now piss off. He got in and drove off. The
radiator had to be replaced as it was usable but damaged.

Bob later introduced a car dealer he met at the auctions. John
Rose. John lived in Vaucluse and originally from the UK . He was semi
retired and did car dealing more as a hobby. He flipped about three
cars a month. He seemed fond of Bob and the two met at my workshop and
exchanged notes about their business. But Bobs attitude changed
towards John after a while , I warned John not to confide in Bob too
much and to keep it strictly business. I remembered Bob telling me how
he spent time in Juvenile detention centres in his youth while in USA
and that he got along well with the black kids and hated Jews, John
had told me he changed his name to Rose but that his real name was
Rosen and that he was Jewish. I wondered if Bob knew this .

One day John rang me and said he was discharged from hospital and that
he was returning to the UK. He said he was assaulted by Bob. John
offered his house for sale to me for $60000. He came around one day
and drove to his home opposite the lighthouse in Vaucluse. From the
back veranda the Harbour bridge and harbour views completed a picture
postcard.

I couldn't raise a loan from any bank for that amount , the most was
$12000 I could get and John wanted cash in full. And left Australia.

Bob turned up a week later bragged how he had belted John and I was
disgusted and told him so.

Max had been suffering from dizzy spells and I said it may be because
of the all the Bex powders you take. He eventually was admitted to
hospital for further investigation. He gave me two small bronze
statues a Lugar and a bag of bullets to keep while he was
hospitalised. He said he didn't the cook to hold them because she'll
show her two sons whom he disliked. She was 15 years older than
him. He made those little statues when he was 17 at his fathers
foundry. They were his most prized possessions besides his James Last
LPs. He showed me family phototgraphs of his dad and mum where they
had shot wild pigs.

The medical investigation was diagnosed as Vertigo. He was treated
for it and released after a week. He told me later he thought it was
his brain.

Bob came around one morning dropping off a job for me. He walked
around the workshop stopping at a Mazda half done. Whats the story
here Pete he asked. Contiuing he said this has been here for weeks
now. Yes I said the owner is the manager of a Holden dealership in
Rockdale. The owner and I agreed that I could do a cut and shut on
this model Mazda.

Whats a cut and shut he asked. The owner bought two similar Mazdas one
damaged in the rear the other damaged in the front. I cut them in half
and rejoin them to make one car . He now wont pay me until I replace
the inside and all the trimming and mouldings etc for the same price
as we agreed upon. The bastard reneged and the car is taking space and
I'm paying for it. That job was worth $2000 , it was a huge job I had
to pay a mechanic to remove and replace the engine and an electrician
to remove and replace the wiring. It's been repainted and
polished. All the parts are in the car for him to assemble. Ok Pete.

Yeah I know the dealership you.re talking about. A big fat guy Greg is
 the manager there he said. Yes thats him I replied. He left saying
 he.ll be back to get his car later in the week.
 
 Before he left I told him I was very unhappy of the assaukt on John
 since he was much older and unable to defend himself . Shame on you
 bob. A fucking dog act mate, I said. He wasn't perturbed replying hes
 a jew. I said no Bob that was uncalled for John did you no harm and
 hes much older than you.
 
Margo his wife arrived to pick him up and they left.

Meanwhile two brothers from the furnature factory across the road
introduced themselves Mario and Maran . They came out here from Serbia
with their parents five years ago. They wanted repairs to their
truck. They asked if I played chess, I replied yes. We arranged to
play after work one afternoon per week. Most days I worked until I was
done what I had to do that day or close to it. I got home at 1am some
nights.

The brothers were inseparable and got along very well. They had happy
dispositions and found humour in everything I said sometimes i thougnt
it was because they misunderstood what I meant so i realised they
hadn't mastered Aussie colloquialism yet because when I said truck
parts were as scares as hens teeth they laughed , I meant the parts
for their old truck weren't easily available.

Anyway we enjoyed our weekly chess sessions . they spoke in their
native to each other when we played so I had no idea what was
said. One day I said who am I playing you or him ? Mario asked me why
I replied because you guys are talking to each other and I don't know
what you're saying . Oh we are talking about furniture. I enjoyed the
games over a beer late afternoon after work. They continued to talk so
I said how about I play both of you at the same time . They we are all
happy. They laughed thought it was a great idea but the drunker they
got the easier I beat them just great fun. Afterb their dad died they
were less frequent but kept in touch as they had more responsibility
now running the business,

Max introduced Bill the brick layer who lived around the corner. He
was about 36 and his wife was about 20. Bill made an effort every
afternoon to stop and say hi. She was his se ond wife according to Max
. Max kept me informed about the neighbours. Unknown to them I knew
who was a Blue Bag supporter and who wasn't . Who supported the Poms
at cricket and who didn't, just as long as I didn't support them.

Bob hadn't been to get his car but phone to say he was busy with his
girly business.

To my surprise the owner of the Mazda arrived with a tow truck to
remove his car. He seemed preoccupied and deep in thought a concerned
look on his face accompanied by one of resolution and acceptance. He
never said a word , handed me the cheque and instructed the tow truck
driver out of ear shot and left. I was happy to see it leave and be
paid in full in cash. $2000.

Bob came the next day to get his car, and seemed to have a spring in
his step . That meant he was in a very good mood. I see the Mazda's
gone he said , Yes I replied he took it yesterday. What did he say Bob
asked. Nothing I replied. Just handed me the money instructed the
towie and left. He looked upset about something. Hahahaha I'm not
surprised Bob laughed. In all the months I'd known Bob I hadn't seen
him so happy. I gave him something to take to his grave the
bastard. He roared. What ? I asked what do you mean Bob ?

I started work on him last week. I found his home number and address,
I ordered 50 pairs of pantyhose from Grace Bros on his wifes name and
have them home delivered. The next night I sent an ambulance there
. The following night a funeral van to pick up a dead body.

My forte was I rang at 1am one night and said it was 2UE radio station
and I was the radio announcer and that we were running a competition
for a holiday for two to Hawaii that he was the lucky person drawn at
random for Holden car Managers in Sydney. Here's how it went. Sir
this is Radio 2UE were you asleep ? Yes what's this about ? he asked
me. We're running a competition among Holden dealerships for managers
only the lucky one to answer this question wins trip for two to
Hawaii for ten days. Are you ready sir ? Is your wife awake I asked
No. Wake the little lady she may help you answer the question. Are you
ready now is she wake ? yes Ok here we go. You answer this for a trip
for two Ready ? Yes! Sir If my cock was up your arse where would my
balls be ?

Fuck you ! he shouted and hung up . 

Wow no wonder he looked very upset when he came in here, Never said a
word to me just paid and walked out.

I guess thanks Bob How much do I owe you ? I asked He said nothing sir
it was my pleasure . You're too nice Pete and nice guys finish last ,
Sometimes you gotta fuck a pig.

Bob finally became undone with a bomb plot planted on an airline
passenger attempt. He kept saying he'll be rich soon lately and when I
asked him how . He just smiled. I thought he expanded his brothel.

I met two of his associates in a pub one night in Kingscross after I
had delivered a car to a its owner at a hotel after it was repaired.

Both unsavoury types I wouldnt have myself seen with too often . Mick
 and Tommy. I never knew their surnames they did odd jobs for Bob ,
 perhaps settled unpaid extortion issues among his network of
 pigeons as he called them. Mick's nose pointed to the left .Probably
 left that way after a left hook .Forty something , slim and medium
 build. He always prided himself ,boasted about his abilities, as a
 former rigger. Scaling walls, getting through small spaces unafraid
 of heights. Tying knots. He told me once when he applied for a jog
 when asked what he can do he replied “I can fuck , fight, climb a
 ladder , ride and push a borrow”. A dry craggy skin signs hes spent
 many years exposed to sunlight and looked like tanned leather. The
 gold tooth in front enhanced his smile, the rest were tobacco
 stained. He had a constant all knowing smile. Twinkling blues eyes,
 His hair mustve been blonde at some stage now mainly grey. He was
 rolling a cigarette in a rollo. A half full glass of beer with an
 empty one beside .
 
 Tommy the Pommy, Micks offsider was shorter and pug nosed . Loved
 bragging about his days in the ring. Feather weight division.
 
Though older now he still had the posture of a fighter and loved
shadow sparring , sometimes those that knew he was punch drunk would
sound a bell behind him and he'd suddenly jump up and down and start
shadow sparring . Mick spoke , Pete ol' mate you know Bob's being
deported ? Yes I replied ,from what I've read in the paper. Me and
Tommy the Pommy did Bob many favours . Taking care of the girls
collected a few dollars here and there when his pigeons were slow in
their debts. One day he said he paid for a trip to New Zealand for me
to have a two week break . I was happy as Larry Ive never been outside
Oz. About two days later me mate Tommy the Pommy slipped his tongue
and mentioned that Bob had given him Two thousand dollars to make a
bomb and put it in my suitcase when I was packing . You get the
picture ? The bomb goes off in mid air I get killed and he Bob
collects $50000 insurance. We we didn't waste any time to query
anything from Bob we went straight to the police station to report it
, the rest you know. Then I remembered how Bob kept saying he will
soon be rich.

Bob stopped coming around after he told me of the incident at a local
radio station. It was around midnight when he managed to slip past the
security guard and into the radio announcers room, there at knife
point Bob forced the announcer to denounce, his mother, live over
the air , then made him beg for his life. The security managed to gain
entry and remove him. He laughed when he told me about it and how he
managed to convince the magistrate that he was drunk and apologised ,
He was amazed he was released.

Wharfies used to frequent the Botany hotel in King street Newtown some
lived around my workshop, A pen gun was offered to me for ten dollars
, Nope. One day he asked me if I could keep a shipping container load
of whiskey until the cops cooled off, I refused. A man who worked in
a foundry left his ute for repairs. When he collected it he said if
ever I ask you to ring for the ambulance please do . He said hes known
at the psych hospital Callum Park, just say John Wilkinson want an
ambulance. And one day he asked to to call an ambulance they knew
what i was talking about and arrived ten minutes later loaded him up
and drove off. A few weeks later i visited the mental hospital and as
I walked down the driveway I asked a man working on the telephone
lines a lineman I guess , since he had on overalls and wore a tool
belt, where ward 22 was , He was about to tell when a nurse walked uo
and said ok Bob its lunch time come with me, he was one of the
patients. 

Rodney appeared one morning . He wanted his valiant re conditioned and
repainted . He was a young man very athletically built medium height
. While I worked on his car . he would check the progress and
occasionally turn up for a chat, Since he wanted to feature it in a
car magazine. I found out he was delivery driver for a big department
store in the CBD. His visits became more frequent and each time he'd
ask to leave a few boxes with me until he returns in the afternoon for
them. One day he asked if I know what was in the boxes, I said I
didn't then he said theyre dinner sets and sets of expensive glassware
. He said he couldn't survive on a driver's wage and the dinner sets
and and glassware were to supplement his wages.

He said what I do is I always add a few extra boxes at the store. Plop
them into the van and I have orders in advance so no worries. He told
me he lives in Centennial Park area and shares a flat. Centennial Park
is ideal for my other trade, Whats that I asked , he proudly announced
that hes a cat burglar. One day he arrived with a taller and younger
looking man. He was dressed in a suit and wore a tie and didn't look
older than 22 . Pete this is Garry, Garry me mate Pete. The man was
spinning a gun on his right index finger as he walked towards me, so I
said where did you get that from I had a cap gun like that when I was
a kid , he said , catch, and tossed it to me , by the weight i could
tell it was real. I was very surprised when Rodney said this is
detective seargent Smith, I laughed openly thinking it was some sort
of joke. Rodney said hes my flat mate, he got promoted because he
knows something about our Premier Robin Askin. We split my takings
from my cat burglar trade Pete. Garry keeps the coppers away from me.

One day I mistakenly locked myself out of my flat in Campsie. My son
Llanley and I stood downstairs looking up to the first floor bathroom
window , thinking of a way to get into the flat to unlock the fron
door, when I heard someone behind greet me. It was Rodney, I was
surprised to see him in the area then thought he must be delivering
goods in the area. I said we're locked out. Which is your flat he
asked, I pointed to the open bathroom window on the first floor. He
said step back . Then he took a few steps back looked at the windiw
and ran scrambling up the wall and through the open window and within
twenty seconds he appeared downstairs waving the key at us.

I learnt that he had moved out of Centennial Park to Dulwich Hill. He
had a gilr friend sharing the flat and he now was elf employed selling
Techometers wheich were the in thing. I said who supplied them to you,
Oh they fell off the back of a truck, I knew what that meant, They
were hot . So I asked where do you sell them ? In the pubs. Ive got
boxes of them. He finally was arrested and charged with receiving
stolen goods etc He told me he was on a roll . He had two boxes left
.

One could get almost anything in a pub. Someone would sidle up to you
 and have an armful of shiny new watches under his jacket sleeve.
 
 I recall a guy walking into pub with a highly polished wooden case
 and called me to the side, a short fat man , it was a hot day and he
 was sweating . the smell of tobacco on his breath , something for the
 Mrs he asked opening the case laden with jewlery glissening under the
 neon light , pick one he said. In a voice higher than I expected. I
 replied ive got no money. Within a second someone stepped forward
 give me that ruby ring mate . The cooks birthday on Sunday , this'll
 be a nice little leg opener. He was a tall rangy man dressed in a
 railway workers uniform. A cigarette stub stuck on his lips, it
 seemed to be glued there though his lips were dry and long side burns
 were in. He reminded me of the conductor of the british comedy On the
 buses.
 
Rodney had approached an off duty policeman in a pub one day and ended
up serving 12 months . He told me later I was doing well that day ,
the pub was full and he was the last bloke I approached , I flashed
the tachos and said wanna tacho mate, he turned and I knew I was done
he had copper written all over him. I smelt pig. You see I pulled 12
months before for ,living off the earning of prostitutes . But I was
renting a room in the house at least that what i told the beak.

He invited me to his new flat in Bexley rd Campsie. That was my
introduction to Jethro Tull . I laughed at the lyrics “Thick as a
brick” I hadnt heard it ever before. So what happened to your copper
mate Garry the detective seargent ? i asked, Oh him ? he was
transferred to Bathurst .

Him and another copper from Maroubra cop shop were making money off
crims that were released from Long Bay Jail. What theyd do is pick up
crim thats served his time. Then make a bodgy arrest accusing him of a
local crime , maybe house breaking and entering selling stolen goods
etc then offer him a way out. They had a flat in Matraville where a
woman lived and took care of it for them. They would then bring
someone they've framed to live there. One of them told me they said
All we want is $500 a week from you. Theres a bitch and enough grog
or weed for you. You can work all the eastern suburbs as much as you
like . What the crims didn't know was that after about six months
they'd re arrest them and have all these break ins pinned onto them
and theyd be back in jail . Anyhow they got found out I guess but by
then theyd made a motza . I couldn't afford the rent alone so I
skipped out . After a few more tinnies he said his hard living days
are over hes happy with Georgie his girl friend . Never saw him
again.

Tony the Insurance man turned up one day carrying a small suitcase as
big as two shoe boxes. My insurance was paid weekly so i wasn't
surprised to see him. However I was impressed by his new Volvo. He
seemed upset. Isnt she a beauty Pete . She sure is . he continued but
some mug lear put a scratch on the bonnet. When you have time one day
next week I'll bring her in to fix that, pointing with his manicured
finger nails to the mark ok I replied. He was a short jovial man in
his mid thirtys . He took care of his appearance . his hair was dark
wavy hair was sleeked down with Pomade and he wore a dark gray suit
with waist coat. He reminded me of a young Al Grassby; the minister of
immigration in the Whitlam govt. We entered my office so I could
write out a check. He put the suitcase on the desk smiling broadly ,
I thought it may be carrying hot jewelry. I expected him to say which
one do you want for the mrs. So many people were selling something or
other to supplement their income , as they put it. Perfume ,shampoo ,
Hair conditioner, washing powder , soap. He suddenly shouted my new
portable phone. What ? My portable Pete. I get one because Im the top
guy at AMP . $4000 . He was excited look ill show you. He opened it
. There was a black hand set and dialer with numbers 0,1 to 9. He said
look ill call the office. He picked the hand set and said exchange
please put me through to AMP Insurance Circular Quay. Instantly he was
in conversation with a woman. He spoke for about three minutes and
said good bye and hung up. I was amazed . wow! I gasped. He said
proudly , You only get one of these if your in the Super class 5 star
at work. That means ten sign ups per week. I had seen my first mobile
phone. Then he asked me I was doing Saturday evening. Probably get
sloshed I replied. How about coming over to my mates place in Vaucluse
were doing wife swapping . We put our car keys in a glass bowl and at
the end of the night we draw keys and the key you draw is the woman
that goes home with you. No way Tony my wife and I are not into
that. Ok come alone and watch , Plenty of grog and bites. Come around
6pm. He wrote the address on a pad shook hands and left. Well i
arrived at 6 pm at the address given . The man said he didn't live
there but was attending the wife swap and invited me in saying Tony
will be back soon. He was Dickie and introduced his wife as
Betty. Guests started arriving most in their early thirtys to early
fortys , all shapes and sizes. I was introduced to each couple
. Dickie man looked across the room at a man neatly dressed medium
built man seated opposite and said he’ll probably end up fucking my
wife again tonight, he said, but she told me she likes the way Alan
fucks her pointing to a tall slender man. A man known as Steward’s
wife overheard what he had said and whispered to me yes Alans the
best. Meaning the tall man ,nodding towards him. Ok I replied .What
about your husband ? I asked. Oh stuff him he only gets a hard on
when he watches someone fucking me then masturbates while Im being
fucked , its the only way to please him. I’d never leave him though,
he keeps me clover. I’d never heard such lunacy but by now I’d had a
tinny or two when Tony arrived with another couple. Met everyone Pete
? Yes sort of I guess. By 9pm the man called Steward asked if I’d seen
where his wife went . He said I hope she hasn’t gone home. I said I
saw her go with Alan into that room ,pointing to a door. He said come
with me . The lounge room was crowded now smoke filled, throbbing soul
muisc loud , one had to shout to be heard. He opened the door it was
the balcony, she was lying on her back naked each knee on either of
his shoulders they were on a sheep skin rug and Alan and her were into
it . Full on sexual intercourse. He moaned and groaned, then she
waved at me shouting, are you having fun love ? Yeah just watching . I
found myself laughing at the scene. Steward whipped out his tool and
promptly started masturbating. She looked up her green eyes wild she
seemed to be counting then shout

I couldn’t wait to tell Keith my old boss about it. He ran a panel
beating business on Canterbury rd Campsie . He reminded me of the
actor Errol Flynn a tall man loved car racing , Bundy Rum and had a
note book full of ladies phone numbers. He often bragged that it took
him 28 minutes from Anangrove to Campsie. He drove a 68 Ford
Fairlane. His breakfast was a flask of Bundy rum and a cup of coffee.
He would turn some cars away because the job was too hard. His best
friend John and he grew up in Redfern. John was shorter than Keith and
dark hair with freckles . A mischievice smile, short neatly trimmed
hair style. Soft features for a man I used to think he must resemble
his mum , because his dad used to attend the Friday night porn nights
at Keiths workshop. There was a room with a double bed and a bar
counter stocked with grog and chairs . Keith would hire two lesbians
and have them do their thing on the bed while we watched . Then we’d
have a lucky ticket draw and the winner would join the lesos in the
fun. $2 entry but by invitation only. There used to be between 10 to
12 guys. The Lebanese brothers from the BP service station would
attend , the neighbour Steve the Greek had a small sandwich shop
. Morris , Keiths mechanic Whose mum actually owned the building. The
police seargent he was Johns dad and Bernie the from the chemist on
Canterbury road.

John Always wore shorts and a T shirt, one night we were sitting in
the office drinking beer , rum eating cabinosi and speck when Keith
said he needed a windscreen for the MG he repaired but theres none
availble anywhere, John said I can get you one now , that surprised
all of us, the mechanic Morris was with us. He said to Keith give me a
screw driver and a shifter . It nine o clock Keith said, just give it
to me Ill go and get one now. Keith got up and got what he wanted from
his tool box, he left and returned within 20 minutes with the wind
screen. Fuck me mate hwere did you get it ? Theres one parked just
down the road. Now without a windscreen. You beauty done it again, you
come through for me mate.

John drove a ute with a trailer attached , he went around collecting
 VWs repaired them and sold them . People would accept $10 to take the
 V dub away. He eventually opened a VW spares business. He had 16
 mechanics reconditioning VW motors day and night shift. He had built
 a workshop on a property in Riverwood he had inherited from his
 dad.
 
 I found a buyer for the first VW he reconditioned it was a medical
 student from Zambia called Cletus.
  
 At one stage he bought every VW exhaust in Sydney as he was aware of
 the strike in Germany and soon thered be a shortage. Soon the
 shortage was reported in local news media. He put an ad on the
 fronet page of the Herald “Plenty VW exhausts available at Johns
 Spares. That Saturday morning there was a queue 100 meters long
 outside his shop, dealer from as far as Perth Melbourn etc  He
 laughed, Sometimes theyd reminisce and laugh about the poverty they
 endured. Remember the time we got into that milkbar and finished a
 tub of ice cream . His friend John still broke into homes in the
 Campsie Canterbury area. But hed qualify that by saying, only to
 see what theyve got . He told me one night the occupants awoke while
 he was inside and called the police , He said he hid on the garage
 roof all night while the police searched the area . Now I only do
 factories. He arrived with a small safe one morning while I was
 still working there and asked Keith to cut it open with the oxy
 torch but Keith told him its better at night when no ones around. He
 got impatient and drove off. Somehow he found someone to do it for
 him during the day. Later that day a group of layabouts were
 arrested for DUI , As they were known to the police when questioned
 it was discovered that they opened the safe for john to see what was
 in it, It mainly contained documents and about $150 which he told
 them to keep . So upon questioning it was revealed where the money
 came from. John was charged for the burglary and served 3 years
 . He entered Long Bay penniless and left with $3000. He had
 organised a horse racing betting system made grog from dry fruit and
 sold ciagettes as ne was a non smoker hed invest his allowance on
 tobacco and dry fruit . He also ran the local brothel with a
 prisoner they called State Express , If one wanted to spend time
 with State Express one had to book through John. He said State
 Express would be dolled up to look like a girl . They had found a
 way to move from cell to cell without the guards knowing . I asked
 him what happend when he was stopped and searched as they stopped
 and searched inmate randomly, He said he kept his money in the rim
 of his hat and hwen stopped would take off hat as a sign of respect
 , throw it to the ground raise his arms and put his foot on his hat
 and thay never thought to look at his hat. The first year after his
  release fron prison he made $30000, doing concrete drive ways . He
  bought an old truck but never registered it never bought a bag of
  cement or gravel. He ahd an offsider Mick the Pommy. I don’t think
  he paid Mick much because Mick lived in Keiths workshop toilet, when
  I asked he why he slept in the toilet he replied its better than the
  UK where he lived in a pig sty. A strange man I often saw him
  hanging around the public  toilet in Campsie . As he worked for john
  I wondered why John couldn’t keep him at his place because  John
  with the $3000 he acquired in Long Bay had bought a house in
  Punchbowl . I asked him why one day he replied Pommies are dirty
  buggers they never wash do you know they stored coal in their
  bathrooms  and never showered. Mick’s a good man with the shovel
  though  mixing mud for me when we do driveways. Mick was a shirt
  thick set man in his late twenties blond hair tobacco stained teeth
  long sharp nose with the result he resembled  a rat face . 

John found a new source of revenue. He picked up damaged car parts
free from panel beating shops and I repaired them in the back yard of
his home. He was selling them throughout Australia .

Morris used the side alley as his workshop to repair brakes. He used
to laugh at Keith saying he works for peanuts. He got jobs from the
local bowling alley his mum playd at. But he seldom changed brake
shoes even though thats what he quoted for. He showed me a quote for
remove and replace brakes worn out brake shoes . A ll he did was
remove them , clean them and scuff them with sandpaper then replace
them and the fee for his service was $120 . That was more than a weeks
wages. Some days he d do two jobs. His house was paid off with in year
he bragged, Keith resented it but could do nothing about the racket.

Since he too would cover rust the putty and body filler and charge for
a full cut out and replacement of the rusted part , insurance jobs to
replace with a new parts never happened except if it were completely
destroyed. On one damaged side panel he took the lid of the can for
the body filler and filled the entire dent with it and body filler
instead of repairing the panel by straightening it instead.  Hed wave
off older cars when they stopped for a quotation. Too busy today , not
today. 

One day Keith cooked some mince curry in the back room , There were
about five of us . so he handed out a plate to each and we started
eating , It was blazing hot , I was sweating and gasping for air
putting on a brave front because i constantly bragged about how I ate
hot food. I noticed everyone else quietly eating and thought it s
odd. Why only me? But I soldiered on. Wiping my brow dabbing the
tears rolling down my cheeks. Sucking in air to cool my throat when
Keith asked me if it was hot enough . Then it clicked , he tricked me
because they weren’t eating what I was , Fuck you, i said . they all
laughed , it was a set up. Mine was loaded with dried chilli powder.

With the smash repair trade When the weather is bad business is good
 and when the weather is good business is bad. I managed to make
 enough to pay the rent and keep us going . I had sponsored my
 Younger brothers Victor and Monty . Victor was a house  painter and
 Monty was a brick layer. When they arrived in 1974 I told them of the
 plan I had for the three of us. They were to were get jobs in their
 trade and to put aside some money each week until there was enough to
 buy a damaged car or two  from the auctions and I’ll repair. My time
 to repair  it would be my financial contribution.  It would then be
 sold and if we did four in one year it would be enough to buy an old
 house whisch they would renovate and we sell it . With  the profit we
 could save it unti we had enough to buy another house to renovate and
 sell etc
 
 Unfortunnately they disagreed and felt i should contribute
 financially as well for the purchase of the wrecks , they didn’t want
 to take into account my expertise , overheads and my time as a
 contribution towards buying a wreck. I thought they were short
 sighted.  So they went separate ways because they lived with me rent
 free for the first six months in Australia. It was also a  way to
 diversify as the smash repairs game was in trouble due to the draught
 we had then. Many businesses were closing down . People in regional
 NSW were leaving and heading for Sydney, farmers left the land an did
 likewise. We were competing with farmers for jobs. I felt so sorry
 for them because they were prepared to do anything . My smash repairs
 was no longer viable I had to close down like hundreds of others. For
 a while I employed four tradesmen and just as I was making  money the
 drought hit. After reading reports of how severe the drought was I
 drove out to the Bathurst area. Along the road people had their cars
 trucks and house for sale. I could've bought 25 acres with a huge
 shed three bedroom home with electricity no water  plus phone and
 furnature for $15000. I managed to get a job with Qantas as a
 sheetmetal worker at the Mascot Hangars.



